Now let's talk about KMS key deletion.
So you can delete the generated keys,
they are keys created from within KMS
in which case these keys, when you create them,
they have no expiration dates
and you cannot immediately delete them.
Instead, you need to delete
and then they will have a seven to 30 days waiting period
for your key to be deleted.
During this waiting period,
you can cancel the key deletion at any time
and during the waiting period
if you try to use the KMS key for encrypt
or decrypt operation,
you're going to get a failure.
At the end of the waiting period,
everything is going to be deleted,
so the KMS key and the key material.
Instead of deleting the key,
you may choose to disable it as well
and when you disable it, it just happens immediately
but you can re-enable the key later on.
If you have imported keys from outside the KMS,
then you may set an expiration period on the key
so that automatically it will expire.
Then if you do do that
then KMS will delete the key material
or if you choose to do so
you can delete the key material on demand.
What's going to happen is that
even if you delete the key material,
then the metadata is going to be kept
and you can reimport the key material in the future.
You may also choose to disable the key entirely
and schedule for deletion,
which is going to delete both the key metadata
and the key material.
Finally, for the AWS managed keys or the AWS owned keys,
they cannot be deleted.
So how can we detect if a key being deleted
is actually being used?
Well, with a combination of CloudTrail,
CloudWatch Logs, CloudWatch Alarms and SNS,
you can be notified when there is someone tries
to use a KMS key that's in the pending deletion state
for any cryptographic operations such as encrypt or decrypt.
How does that work?
Well, we have a KMS key.
It's pending deletion,
and then a user will try to do encrypt or decrypt.
Of course, this API call will not work
because we are in the pending deletion state,
but this API call is still going to be logged by CloudTrail.
Then it will be denied in CloudTrail,
and we can from CloudTrail send all the API calls
to CloudWatch Logs where we can set up a metric filter
to look for is pending deletion.
Then this will transform into a CloudWatch Alarm
and this CloudWatch Alarm, if it has a positive value,
can send an alert into an Amazon SNS topic.
So there's another way to get notifications
of keys being deleted or disabled,
this is to use CloudTrail and EventBridge.
So the use case is a little bit different.
This time, we want to know whenever a user
is going to do the API call to either disable a key
or schedule a key deletion
because this may be very bad actions
if then KMS cannot be used and if they're not done properly.
So whenever we are doing such an API call
through CloudTrail integration
we have an event of that API call in Amazon EventBridge.
So we will trigger,
for example an SNS topic to send an email to administrator,
or if we wanted to completely disable this
we may want to revert the disabled key operation
or the schedule key deletion operation.
Thanks to systems manager automation,
you should run a AWS config remediation,
cancel key deletion
so that's the key is back to normal.
This is when you know that you're for sure
never want to delete any KMS keys.
Now, in case of a KMS multi region key, how does that work?
Well, first you need to delete the replica keys
which is less risky because it can always be recreated
from the primary key
and you must also, for these keys,
schedule your deletions so seven to 30 day waiting period.
And then when this waiting period is over,
then you can delete the primary key.
So the primary key can only be deleted
if all the replicas have been deleted.
And then if you prefer to delete the primary
but keep a replica,
what you must do first is to take one of these replicas
and then you're going to promote it as primary,
and then you delete the old primary.
And again, deleting the primary key must be scheduled
and takes, again, seven to 30 days
so if you delete first replicas
and then you delete the primary key,
you have a minimum waiting period of 14 days in total.
All right, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.